Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about two dimensional or 2D arrays.
So a 2 dimensional array is a collection of one
dimensional arrays and the syntax is specify the data type
and then the name of the array and then specify
the number of rows and columns separately within square brackets
and finally a semi colon.
Now let's take an example. A 2D array
with three rows and three columns we can visualise the
2D array as a matrix. Though we declare the
array row and column wise
The array elements are stored in sequential memory locations
Here we can see the address is starting from 1000
then 1004 ,1008, 1012 upto 1032
Now let us understand the position of each element.
First element is in row zero and column zero that is
position 00. The second element is in the row 0
and column 1 that is position 01. Third element is
in row 0 and column 2 that is position 02
So these are the first row elements or row 0
elements
Now let us see the second row elements which are
Forth element of the 2D Array at row 1
column 0 that is position 10 the fifth element at
row 1 column 1 that is position 11 and the
sixth element at row 1 column 2 that is position
And now let us see the third row elements which
are the seventh element of the 2D array at row 2
Column 0 that is position 20 and the
eighth element at row 2 column 1 that is position
21 and the ninth element at row 2 column 2
that
is position 22. Now let's take an integer 2D
array which has the elements
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. So 1 will be stored in arr[0][0]
2 will be stored in arr[0][1] and so on.
And finally we get like this.
We can also declare the 2D array row wise
like this
We will discuss more about the declaration and initialisation
of 2D array in the next video
Now let us see how to access 2D array elements
so we can access any element using the indices
So to access the row 2 and column 2 element
Use arr[2][2] and we can access the element
in this position which is 9 and to access row
0 and column 1 element
We can use arr[0][1] and we
can get the value stored in here which is 2
similarly to access row 1 and column 1 element
Use arr[1][1] and we can get the value
which is 5
So that's all and thank you for watching this video